# [What if...](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/103502-what-if/)

## 1 [MyNeighbourTrololo on April 9, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/103502-what-if/?do=findComment&comment=1042919)

Steward of Gondor text was:

"Attach to a Noble hero"?..

## 2 [PsychoRocka on April 9, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/103502-what-if/?do=findComment&comment=1042931)

It would still work fine on Elrohir whom I use it on :P [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_tongue.png]

## 3 [GrandSpleen on April 9, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/103502-what-if/?do=findComment&comment=1043372)

I think many would agree that some more limitations on this card would be a good thing, but don't hold your breath.

## 4 [lleimmoen on April 9, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/103502-what-if/?do=findComment&comment=1043489)

It is exactly what the new article is trying to argue against. And I see their point. Still, I think it would be quite simple to add "Noble" before hero, or, better still, "Gondor Noble". But going for less limitation, implying Steward of Gondor is more about his favour than presence, it could also have a simple phrase "Play only if you control a Gondor Noble hero." One would then still have a plenty of options and both camps (theme and mechanics) could be satisfied.

Edited April 9, 2014 by lleimmoen

## 5 [Distractionbeast on April 9, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/103502-what-if/?do=findComment&comment=1043506)

Steward of Gondor:  

 

increase the cost to 3 (so it doesn't instantly pay for itself)

 

or

 

reduce the resource gain to 1 per trigger (still beastly awesome)

 

or

 

require attached hero to exhaust to trigger (hmmm... fund-raise or govern)

## 6 [FeloniusBard on April 9, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/103502-what-if/?do=findComment&comment=1043734)

Steward of Gondor is pretty much the poster child for the biggest problem with the LOTR LCG---the game doesn't quite know whether it wants to be a true "deck builder," where you should always build the "best" deck possible regardless of "theme," or whether all of the interlocking card synergies should only work in "thematically appropriate" ways. 

 

Steward of Gondor is insanely powerful. It's pretty much the biggest no-brainer card to include in any deck that has a Leadership hero. Yet it's thematically inappropriate for pretty much everything EXCEPT a Gondor deck.

 

So as a "thematic" player, you're essentially forced to NOT USE an incredibly powerful, useful card, because TOLKIEN WOULD NEVER DO THAT . . . or you just take the attitude that winning the game is more important than theme. 

 

I think the game's designers, if they'd thought about it hard enough, could have done more to solve both problems from the outset, rather than trying to solve it afterwards in the expansions. 

Edited April 9, 2014 by FeloniusBard

## 7 [Pharmboys2013 on April 10, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/103502-what-if/?do=findComment&comment=1043924)

Presuming i'm in the minority, but I'm fine with the card.  Its extremely powerful, but hey, this is a card game.  Every card game has staples

## 8 [Demoncow on April 10, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/103502-what-if/?do=findComment&comment=1043953)

> Presuming i'm in the minority, but I'm fine with the card.  Its extremely powerful, but hey, this is a card game.  Every card game has staples

I'm with you on that!!! I have never built a leadership deck without it.

