# [Difficulty?](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/110085-difficulty/)

## 1 [Mike1977 on July 4, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/110085-difficulty/?do=findComment&comment=1143346)

So in looking at the core rules... there are 3 difficulty of scenarios (1, 4, 7).

 

I'm wondering what to buy next, but I would like easier scenarios more then harder ones...

 

Is there somewhere I can see what products have easier scenarios?

## 2 [MyNeighbourTrololo on July 4, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/110085-difficulty/?do=findComment&comment=1143351)

buy everything in oder

note that difficulty comes not just from the quest itself, but from the card pool you have access to.

Edited July 4, 2014 by MyNeighbourTrololo

## 3 [richsabre on July 4, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/110085-difficulty/?do=findComment&comment=1143434)

yes, difficulty in this game is something that changes over time - those core quests can easily be beaten with a full card pool, but are far more challenging...

 

to directly answer you though - i would say go in order also. hunt for gollum is next and is a nice medium quest. conflict at the carrock has a high difficulty rating but with the right deck and strategy its quite easy. rhosgobel has a reputation for being luck based - its difficult. emyn muil is very easy, one of the easiest released. dead marshes is medium -  a nice quest. and return to mirkwood is a great multi quest, but difficult solo

 

Richard

## 4 [Khamul The Easterling on July 4, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/110085-difficulty/?do=findComment&comment=1143439)

Hi Mike,

 

Almost everyone has lots of trouble beating the scenario's with just the core set.  Especially the second and third quests.  The player cards you get in the core set are very limited and few.  I can see why you are wanting easier quests now!   However as you build up your card pool bigger and bigger, the quests will get easier.   In fact the players who have bought everything released for the game (including me) find most of the earlier scenario's quite easy now.  That's why they have released nightmare packs for those older quests but that's a whole different story and you won't be needing nightmare packs for a long time!  I would strongly suggest buying in order.  That would mean buying the 6 Adventure packs in the Mirkwood cycle.  Richsabre did a great job describing the quests above.  

 

Tales From the Cards is a great blog that has lots of good guides for new players.  Here is an amazing new player buying guide from that website.  Check it out!   http://talesfromthecards.wordpress.com/2013/09/13/new-player-buying-guide/ [http://talesfromthecards.wordpress.com/2013/09/13/new-player-buying-guide/]

 

Hall of Beorn is also a great blog.  The writer has an outstanding playthrough for the core set quests and the Mirkwood quests.  He also provides help for deck building.  Definitely check that out too!  http://hallofbeorn.wordpress.com/beorns-path/ [http://hallofbeorn.wordpress.com/beorns-path/]

 

Have fun and feel free to ask questions,

Khamul

## 5 [klaymen_sk on July 4, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/110085-difficulty/?do=findComment&comment=1143492)

I'd just like to add that you shouldn't take the FFG difficulty rating too seriously (read: ignore it completely). They're nothing more than a bunch of random numbers pulled out of someone's behind.

There was even a post on one blog with updated ratings. Was it Tales from the Cards?

## 6 [Khamul The Easterling on July 4, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/110085-difficulty/?do=findComment&comment=1143506)

> I'd just like to add that you shouldn't take the FFG difficulty rating too seriously (read: ignore it completely). They're nothing more than a bunch of random numbers pulled out of someone's behind.
> 
> There was even a post on one blog with updated ratings. Was it Tales from the Cards?

Yeah it was on Tales from the Cards but it wasn't Ian who wrote it.  I personally think that that post with the updated ratings was just as bad as Fantasy Flight's.  

## 7 [deeth82 on July 22, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/110085-difficulty/?do=findComment&comment=1165248)

Like others here, I would also suggest you purchase the scenarios in order.  Also, like klaymen and Khamul stated, the posted difficulty levels aren't entirely accurate.  The most consistent difficulty you will face will be that generated by luck of the draw.  

For example, I'm new to the game and own all AP's of the Shadows of Mirkwood cycle, as well as the deluxe Khazad-Dum expansion.  Twice I have been solo playing Journey Along the Anduin and of course, the first Quest card says to draw a Hill Troll to the Staging Area if one hasn't been drawn already.  Lucky me, both times I have drawn from the Encounter deck, I've gotten the Hill Troll first try (lower starting Threat level).  The first time I solo'd this scenario, my next encounter deck draws were low-threat enemies that I was able to dispatch in the staging area using Dunhere's special ability, and after avoiding engagement with the Hill Troll, I was able to finally take him on with several allies (including Gandalf) in play.  I beat that first scenario card without losing a single hero, or getting my threat level near 30.  Ended up barely scraping through the quest and lost Dwalin along the way, but all was good.  The fact that I completed it all in true Solo mode was quite refreshing!

Fast forward to two nights ago where I solo'd that scenario for the second time...first draw was Hill Troll, alright!  Good luck streak, right?  Wrong...wrong!  First Encounter deck draw after that was the other Hill Troll.  Most of the draws from my deck in the subsequent turns were great cards, but only in certain situations that weren't currently valid.  It wasn't long until I hit Threat level 30, and down come both Hill Trolls to engage...and me sitting there with no Gandalf in play (had 2 in my deck...somewhere).  I lost all my heroes on the first Quest card....game over.  And it literally had more to do with the luck of the draw than anything else.  

Sure, you can deck-build to your heart's content (I'm still learning...got a ways to go, though) to offset the chances that you'll have bad draws, but sometimes Lady Luck is not on your side and you will get your metaphorical guts stomped out.  For added challenge, try taking an entire sphere's Ally/Event/Attachment cards and using all of them with randomized shuffling on the Passage Through Mirkwood quest.  Difficulty level 1?  You can still get murdered badly; sometimes even with two players.  

To me, the fun in this game exists in the challenge level and the overall flavor/quest creativity.  Somedays it seems like I'm wielding the Golden Deck of Losslessness, others I scrape by with a hard-fought win, and still others I feel like the Gaming Gods have combined their powers for the sole purpose of my undoing.  Learn to love the challenges and see them as they are: Merely obstacles to overcome!  If you won every game, you'd most certainly be bored before long.  A few years ago, I would never have imagined myself playing a card game, much less a Living Card Game such as this, but its design overall is wonderful, and the challenge always keeps me coming back.  
:) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]     

## 8 [TwiceBorn on July 22, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/110085-difficulty/?do=findComment&comment=1165902)

I agree 100% with deeth82. I'm also a relatively new player to this game (and to LCGs in general), but I have managed to beat Journey Along the Anduin a few times, straight solo using a 50-card deck from only one Core set (the last win was an epic 24 round monstrosity that ended when my threat was at 49!!!).

 

As for Escape from Dol Guldur… My girlfriend and I played it in 2-player mode a week or so ago, and we got 15 tokens on the second stage but both our threats exceeded 50 shortly thereafter. We even killed the Nazgul (and he's one deadly MF)! Certainly, we had bad luck along the way, and I imagine you must need exceptionally good luck to defeat that scenario using only one Core set (I am almost ready to concede that it can't be done straight solo with a 50-card deck made from one Core set).

 

I have bought the entire Mirkwood cycle, but have only played The Hunt for Gollum so far (won 2 out of 4 solo games, and won my very first game using the same 50-card solo "Core only" deck I had used to defeat Journey Along the Anduin). I have really been milking the Core set and its scenarios for all their worth, and want to enjoy each scenario and AP to the max rather than rushing through to never play them again. There are so many possibilities with this game. So far, I have really enjoyed growing as a player by following the game's chronological releases, so I too recommend you start with all the APs in the Mirkwood cycle and move on from there.

 

And I couldn't agree more with the last paragraph in deeth82's post...

Edited July 22, 2014 by TwiceBornh

## 9 [deeth82 on July 23, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/110085-difficulty/?do=findComment&comment=1166789)

> I agree 100% with deeth82. I'm also a relatively new player to this game (and to LCGs in general), but I have managed to beat Journey Along the Anduin a few times, straight solo using a 50-card deck from only one Core set (the last win was an epic 24 round monstrosity that ended when my threat was at 49!!!).
> 
>  
> 
> As for Escape from Dol Guldur… My girlfriend and I played it in 2-player mode a week or so ago, and we got 15 tokens on the second stage but both our threats exceeded 50 shortly thereafter. We even killed the Nazgul (and he's one deadly MF)! Certainly, we had bad luck along the way, and I imagine you must need exceptionally good luck to defeat that scenario using only one Core set (I am almost ready to concede that it can't be done straight solo with a 50-card deck made from one Core set).
> 
>  
> 
> I have bought the entire Mirkwood cycle, but have only played The Hunt for Gollum so far (won 2 out of 4 solo games, and won my very first game using the same 50-card solo "Core only" deck I had used to defeat Journey Along the Anduin). I have really been milking the Core set and its scenarios for all their worth, and want to enjoy each scenario and AP to the max rather than rushing through to never play them again. There are so many possibilities with this game. So far, I have really enjoyed growing as a player by following the game's chronological releases, so I too recommend you start with all the APs in the Mirkwood cycle and move on from there.
> 
>  
> 
> And I couldn't agree more with the last paragraph in deeth82's post...

Funny thing, I never played Magic or other CCG's or LCG's before...I was a videogamer at heart...spent years playing PC/Console shooters and RPG's, and I think my gateway into this type of game was actually the "Souls" videogame series by From Software (Demon's Souls/Dark Souls 1 and 2).  The overall atmosphere enveloped me, and the challenge level sometimes frustrated me, but kept me coming back for more!  After I decided I was done buying new PC/Console components every two years, I got back into board/card games, and loving the original novels of LOTR, I decided to "try it out".  Been hooked for a few months now.  I'm still waiting to see if my wife thinks this is a good thing or not.  Obviously it can be an expensive habit after purchasing AP's/DEXP's/Sleeves, but it's the quietest game I've ever played, and she probably appreciates that I'm not hurling swear words at a TV screen anymore.  

:) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]

 

Back on topic: I love the challenge this game presents!  I went back to Journey Along The Anduin one more time ("Just one more game!") last night, only this time I took the entire Spirit deck and shuffled out all of the cards I deemed worthless towards this endeavor.  As before, I was using Eowyn + Dunhere + Dwalin.  I started off with Chieftain Ufthak and the Hill Troll in the staging area, and turtled my way (just a bit) through building my Ally/Event/Attachment pool over the course of a few rounds.  Having built the deck a little more, I was able to reduce my threat level into the low teens early on and give myself a little breathing room before engaging these behemoths, while Dunhere casually sniped the lesser enemies in the staging area and Eowyn + allies put some progress tokens down.  After having finally drawn Gandalf, it was time to take on the baddies.  Two rounds with the Hill Troll and one each with the Marsh Adder + Ufthak later, and I was one token short of moving forward, and....drew the second Hill Troll.  Took him on and lost Gandalf, but moved forward and continued down the river, clearing all the enemies at the end.  Building the deck a little more attentively made the whole thing manageable, though it was still challenging!  I really can't say enough about how much fun I'm having with this game, and I haven't even started the Dwarrowdelf cycle!

Edit: Sorry, I forgot to mention this earlier, but you have some guts taking on these scenarios with only the core set!  I only had the core set for about a week, and after playing a few times I decided it was time to get Mirkwood and K-D.  Kudos to you!

Edited July 23, 2014 by deeth82

## 10 [TwiceBorn on July 30, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/110085-difficulty/?do=findComment&comment=1175601)

>  
> 
> Edit: Sorry, I forgot to mention this earlier, but you have some guts taking on these scenarios with only the core set!  I only had the core set for about a week, and after playing a few times I decided it was time to get Mirkwood and K-D.  Kudos to you!
> 
>  

 

Guts? Nah… I'm just a stubborn masochist…  :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png] I've had K-D for a while as well, but still haven't taken the shrink-wrap off it.

 

But all the same, thanks for the kudos.

Edited July 30, 2014 by TwiceBornh

## 11 [Eldainorn on July 30, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/110085-difficulty/?do=findComment&comment=1175829)

I, for one, am thinking that maybe this game is getting just a bit too easy, at least the Dwarrowdelf cycle. Yes, I am a little behind, but so far own almost everything (5 APs in ATS cycle missing and some from the first two cycles.)

I always play with just the cards released up to the point of particular scenario I am playing.

 

Example:

I played TWitW, TLD and FoS. I 've never lost against TWitW, once against TLD. When I played FoS I won but I played wrong the nameless things, but even if I did play them the right way I doubt that I would lose. We'll see again today.

Maybe nightmare is the way to go now.

 

I also played HoN and, yes, the quests are really tough, so I am looking forward to the AtS cycle.

## 12 [richsabre on July 30, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/110085-difficulty/?do=findComment&comment=1175912)

yes, the dwarrowdelf cycle is by far the easiest...power cards mixed with relatively easy quests...actually thats why its my favourite so far ;) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_wink.png]

## 13 [MyNeighbourTrololo on July 30, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/110085-difficulty/?do=findComment&comment=1175924)

Deserving...?

## 14 [richsabre on July 30, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/110085-difficulty/?do=findComment&comment=1176442)

> Deserving...?

an award? :D [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_biggrin.png]

