# [Saga](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/129605-saga/)

## 1 [Veve7 on December 21, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/129605-saga/?do=findComment&comment=1375567)

Hello!

I have 2 questions:

1)What happens if i reveal Grevious Wound or Overcome by Grief(I discarded them with Miner of Ironhills and I revealed them again)?

2)What happens if i must attach poison,but I have no reamaining cards into my deck?

Thank you!

## 2 [GrandSpleen on December 21, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/129605-saga/?do=findComment&comment=1375644)

1) Put it in the staging, like it was at the start of the game. It could potentially become attached to your characters again.  Objective cards go into the staging area when revealed, unless directed otherwise.

 

2) Lucky you, no poison!

## 3 [SauronTheGreat on December 22, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/129605-saga/?do=findComment&comment=1375995)

Ditto what GS said!  It can even be a strategy to get all your cards into your hand and discard pile as quick as possible to make poison pointless. 

## 4 [PsychoRocka on December 23, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/129605-saga/?do=findComment&comment=1378138)

> 1) Put it in the staging, like it was at the start of the game. It could potentially become attached to your characters again.  Objective cards go into the staging area when revealed, unless directed otherwise.
> 
>  
> 
> 2) Lucky you, no poison!

Yeah see this is how I play with these cards as well (first question) and is the correct way but it just seems really wrong to me both mechanically and thematically. I think they should be removed from the quest altogether if they are removed with Miner of the Iron Hills, Power of Orthanc or Elrond (ally). The entire point of condition attachments is that they are nastier than treacheries etc because they stay in play unless you can remove them. Removing them, having the encounter discard pile get shuffled back into the encounter deck and that condition appearing again a few turns later just seems stupid AND unfair to me. also pretty much all condition attachments have mutliple copies in their respective quest except for the Saga ones so you CAN see more than one copy even if removing/discarding them was permanent. If this was the case for every quest this might be a bit much and might take a bit too much of the bite out of condition attachments but at the least this should have been the case for objective condition attachments like the two in Journey in the Dark.

Frodo suffers the one particularly grevious wound from the cave troll's attack and Gimli is overcome by Grief that the expedition to reclaim Moria failed so poorly and the dwarves who set out to do so were all killed. The two cards symbolise two specific things and once that wound and grief has been overcome they should not be able to appear again...

Not to mention you are forced to encounter and overcome at least one if not BOTH often very early in the quest so really shouldn't have to possibly overcome them all over again a second time.

Edited December 23, 2014 by PsychoRocka

## 5 [SauronTheGreat on December 23, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/129605-saga/?do=findComment&comment=1378480)

I agree with Rocka.  It doesn't really seem fair for, for instance "caught in the web" to be discarded by the miner and then for that very same card to "rise back out of the encounter deck" and come back out.  conditions are nastier and that is why people do play cards like the miner.  But if the miner only buys you a few turns of comfort, is it worth it?

## 6 [GrandSpleen on December 23, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/129605-saga/?do=findComment&comment=1378622)

These days there are more cards available that remove Condition attachments.  Elrond (ally), Power of Orthanc, and the miner of course.  If you feel overly punished by conditions, there are 8 cards that you can put in your deck (with one core set) to potentially remove the conditions.  And only one of them is dedicated to remove Conditions (Power of Orthanc), the others have some additional usefulness!

Edited December 23, 2014 by GrandSpleen

## 7 [SauronTheGreat on December 23, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/129605-saga/?do=findComment&comment=1378806)

My point is not that there aren't enough cards, but that it ends up not to be worth it to work hard to trash a card when 2 turns later it just comes back up

## 8 [ricedwlit on December 24, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/129605-saga/?do=findComment&comment=1379570)

> My point is not that there aren't enough cards, but that it ends up not to be worth it to work hard to trash a card when 2 turns later it just comes back up

 

 

If the encounter deck is about to recycle, you may want to hold off on discarding a nasty condition.  I've also been know to wait on finishing off a particularly nasty enemy just to make sure I don't encounter them again.

## 9 [Veve7 on December 26, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/129605-saga/?do=findComment&comment=1381710)

Thank you!

