# [New Faq](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/)

## 1 [GrandSpleen on January 20, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1414281)

It's an update day I guess! Two articles in one day.  Here [http://www.fantasyflightgames.com/edge_news.asp?eidn=5330] is the FAQ article.

 

Big notables:

-Will of the West now removes itself from the game after being played

-Blue Mountain Trader limited once per round

 

## 2 [Raven1015 on January 20, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1414345)

Hooray on both counts!

## 3 [Teamjimby on January 20, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1414367)

I'm a little disappointed by the Will of the West change.  I wish they made it limit once per round instead of removing from the game.  Blue Mountain Trader errata was clearly necessary.

## 4 [gandalfDK on January 20, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1414431)

Yeah, a new update! Cool!

 

Like the errata !(there are not that many ;) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_wink.png])

## 5 [Mndela on January 20, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1414434)

> It's an update day I guess! Two articles in one day.  Here [http://www.fantasyflightgames.com/edge_news.asp?eidn=5330] is the FAQ article.
> 
>  
> 
> Big notables:
> 
> -Will of the West now removes itself from the game after being played
> 
> -Blue Mountain Trader limited once per round

 

Woooooooh

## 6 [krokodiler on January 20, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1414435)

There is not much red content in it... I doubt that all our doubts are explained ;) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_wink.png]

## 7 [Gizlivadi on January 20, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1414449)

Am I the only one that facepalmed at the fact that they changed the title to A Elbereth! Gilthonial! but did NOT correct the actual typo??? It should be "GilthoniEl"!! 

Edited January 20, 2015 by Gizlivadi

## 8 [Raven1015 on January 20, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1414453)

One part that might go under the radar is that they clarified "gaining", "adding", and "moving" resources. The distinction between "adding" and "moving" was made some time ago, but this FAQ also says that "gaining" includes both "adding" and "moving", so that means Errand-rider could work to activate Heir of Mardil, for example.

## 9 [Feonix on January 20, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1414513)

> Am I the only one that facepalmed at the fact that they changed the title to A Elbereth! Gilthonial! but did NOT correct the actual typo??? It should be "GilthoniEl"!! 

 

Thanks for pointing this out to us! The actual errata'd version of the card does have the correct title of "A Elbereth! Gilthoniel!", but both the new article and the FAQ incorrectly stated the title with "-ial" instead of "-iel". The article and the FAQ have been updated to reflect the proper title.

## 10 [Catastrophic09 on January 20, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1414610)

> One part that might go under the radar is that they clarified "gaining", "adding", and "moving" resources. The distinction between "adding" and "moving" was made some time ago, but this FAQ also says that "gaining" includes both "adding" and "moving", so that means Errand-rider could work to activate Heir of Mardil, for example.

Yes!! Thanks for pointing this out! An awesome combo to reliably get use from Heir of Mardil and not be restricted to SoG.

## 11 [booored on January 20, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1414654)

Will of the West has needed this for a long long time. Probably still not strong enough. I think it should be one per deck even.

Edited January 20, 2015 by booored

## 12 [Rapier1 on January 20, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1414739)

I'm pleased to see some of the power cards from core being addressed. I hope to see changes to others (discussed ad nauseum by myself elsewhere!).

It's nice to see some clarification as well. 

## 13 [Mndela on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1414803)

> One part that might go under the radar is that they clarified "gaining", "adding", and "moving" resources. The distinction between "adding" and "moving" was made some time ago, but this FAQ also says that "gaining" includes both "adding" and "moving", so that means Errand-rider could work to activate Heir of Mardil, for example.

 

And Harbor Master ^^

Edited January 20, 2015 by Mndela

## 14 [danpoage on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415157)

>  
> 
> > One part that might go under the radar is that they clarified "gaining", "adding", and "moving" resources. The distinction between "adding" and "moving" was made some time ago, but this FAQ also says that "gaining" includes both "adding" and "moving", so that means Errand-rider could work to activate Heir of Mardil, for example.
> 
>  
> 
> And Harbor Master ^^
> 
>  

Unfortunately, Harbor Master does not work with Errand-rider. Caleb has already clarified this, and it is confirmed in the latest FAQ. Harbor Master says "After a card effect adds any number of resources", this only works with effects that increase the total number of resources under player control. Moving resources does *not* count as *adding* resources, but *moving* and *adding* both count as *gaining* resources. The other relevant verb is *collecting* which is not a card effect as it is part of the framework of the game and happens automatically during the resource phase (and does also count as *gaining* resources).

Edited January 21, 2015 by danpoage

## 15 [Veve7 on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415437)

Changing Will of The West is THE WORST idea that i had seen in the game!Why they changed a card that was here since the core set?!

Edited January 21, 2015 by Veve7

## 16 [Serazu on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415449)

Solid changes. I still remember my infinite deck recycling back in those days of Beravor's unlimited ability.

## 17 [Veve7 on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415460)

Next they will do a change:

From now all the stats of the characters are reduced to 0,and each text box is blank!

## 18 [Serazu on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415474)

> Next they will do a change:
> 
> From now all the stats of the characters are reduced to 0,and each text box is blank!

 

Either of those (not both at the same time though) would have been an excellent effect caused by an active location or a quest stage. I 'm sure we 'll see it in the future.

## 19 [Veve7 on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415490)

I was sarcastic!Also if all stats are 0 how you can advance?

Edited January 21, 2015 by Veve7

## 20 [Serazu on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415506)

I was aware of your sarcasm. It's just that there were crumbles of genius in it. Forget the 0 stats; focus on the blank texts: a giant middle finger towards all the dwarves / outlands / silvan builds.

## 21 [joezim007 on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415596)

> Changing Will of The West is THE WORST idea that i had seen in the game!Why they changed a card that was here since the core set?!

 

Unless you are trying to do one of the infinite loops, this change should have little bearing on the way Will of the West gets played.

## 22 [joezim007 on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415598)

> I was aware of your sarcasm. It's just that there were crumbles of genius in it. Forget the 0 stats; focus on the blank texts: a giant middle finger towards all the dwarves / outlands / silvan builds.

 

That would kill a good majority of cards, but would actually help keep the cheap eagles alive! :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]

## 23 [Teamjimby on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415617)

>  
> 
> > Changing Will of The West is THE WORST idea that i had seen in the game!Why they changed a card that was here since the core set?!
> 
>  
> 
> Unless you are trying to do one of the infinite loops, this change should have little bearing on the way Will of the West gets played.
> 
>  

It's sad for me because one of my favorite decks is all about Hobbit pipes, card draw, and enough threat reduction to absorb everyone else's threat gain.  It takes about 10 turns to get through the deck, then it can cycle through again every 3 or 4 turns.  I don't consider it an "infinite loop" deck, but it definitely just got nerfed a bit. 

## 24 [Distractionbeast on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415619)

>  
> 
> > I was aware of your sarcasm. It's just that there were crumbles of genius in it. Forget the 0 stats; focus on the blank texts: a giant middle finger towards all the dwarves / outlands / silvan builds.
> 
>  
> 
> That would kill a good majority of cards, but would actually help keep the cheap eagles alive! :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]
> 
>  

 

And keep good old Gandalf in play.  :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]

## 25 [joezim007 on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415652)

>  
> 
> >  
> > 
> > > Changing Will of The West is THE WORST idea that i had seen in the game!Why they changed a card that was here since the core set?!
> > 
> >  
> > 
> > Unless you are trying to do one of the infinite loops, this change should have little bearing on the way Will of the West gets played.
> > 
> >  
> 
> It's sad for me because one of my favorite decks is all about Hobbit pipes, card draw, and enough threat reduction to absorb everyone else's threat gain.  It takes about 10 turns to get through the deck, then it can cycle through again every 3 or 4 turns.  I don't consider it an "infinite loop" deck, but it definitely just got nerfed a bit. 
> 
>  

 

I still don't see how it would be a very noticeable issue. Most games should last 10 turns or less.

## 26 [Veve7 on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415725)

Changing a card from the core set now feels wrong!Also changing any card after peoples bought it feels wrong!

Edited January 21, 2015 by Veve7

## 27 [MyNeighbourTrololo on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415761)

Dude, unless you plan to visit tournaments (which would never happen) - you're free to use this card as it printed.

## 28 [Veve7 on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415783)

I know.But feels like cheating!

## 29 [Teamjimby on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415856)

>  
> 
> > It's sad for me because one of my favorite decks is all about Hobbit pipes, card draw, and enough threat reduction to absorb everyone else's threat gain.  It takes about 10 turns to get through the deck, then it can cycle through again every 3 or 4 turns.  I don't consider it an "infinite loop" deck, but it definitely just got nerfed a bit. 
> > 
> >  
> 
>  
> 
> I still don't see how it would be a very noticeable issue. Most games should last 10 turns or less.
> 
>  

Yeah, most of the time it's not an issue.  Worst case scenario I can proxy my Dwarven tomb as a second Will of the West.  But every now and then there's a long game and it's just so much fun once the deck is in full swing to cycle through a few times. 

## 30 [Rapier1 on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415869)

> Changing a card from the core set now feels wrong!Also changing any card after peoples bought it feels wrong!

 

It might feel wrong to you. But it's definitely better for the health of the game to address the cards in the core set, in light of new cards coming out and new designs.

 

It's even worth going back to the core set designs to see which ones ended up being too strong or weak even when not compared to future cards and changing those too.

Personally I'd have liked to see the core set re-done at the time that they released the "easy" mode to quests (then we could have got a fancy core update that everyone would want to get with all errata applied). I suspect it doesn't have enough traction to get made though compared to just making more new stuff.

## 31 [crx3800 on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1415975)

The last core box I bought actually had the gold rings on encounter cards to denote the ones you remove for easy mode. They also had the numbers so you knew how many were in a set. I suspect these cards will be updated in future printings as well.

## 32 [booored on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1416376)

edit... totalyh ****** up that post.. forgot about one of the new faq rulings

Edited January 21, 2015 by booored

## 33 [Mndela on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1416417)

Changing a core set card is not a wrong. While the time, new cards can make older cards more powerful. So it is normal that all card, even the most old, could be changed by faqs.

Edited January 21, 2015 by Mndela

## 34 [joezim007 on January 21, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1416432)

> The last core box I bought actually had the gold rings on encounter cards to denote the ones you remove for easy mode. They also had the numbers so you knew how many were in a set. I suspect these cards will be updated in future printings as well.

 

Do they have the errata'd text on them?

## 35 [GrandSpleen on January 22, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1416772)

I had a nitpick on pg. 16:

 

"Q: When I reveal the last card of the encounter deck, do

I immediately reset the quest deck before resolving the
staging of the revealed card?
A: No. Resolve the staging of the revealed card,
including any ‘When Revealed’ effects, before resetting
the quest deck, if able. If you are unable to completely
resolve the staging of the card because it instructs you
to interact with the encounter deck in some manner,
then reset the quest deck and finish resolving the effect.
 
(my emphasis)
 
The language "reset the quest deck" is something you read in The Hunt for Gollum.  The quest deck is -- as I understand it -- supposed to refer to the stack of quest cards (not the encounter deck, but the cards that signify quest stage 1a, 1b, 2a, etc).  If you 'reset the quest deck' you'll be starting the game from scratch.  I think this was meant to say 'reset the encounter deck,' if we are treating 'reset' as 'shuffle the discard pile back in.'
Edited January 22, 2015 by GrandSpleen

## 36 [TwiceBorn on January 22, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1416837)

>  
> 
> > The last core box I bought actually had the gold rings on encounter cards to denote the ones you remove for easy mode. They also had the numbers so you knew how many were in a set. I suspect these cards will be updated in future printings as well.
> 
>  
> 
> Do they have the errata'd text on them?
> 
>  

 

I bought both of my Core sets in early 2014, and all cards had their text revised to be consistent with the FAQ/errata in effect at the time. So it's likely that future printings of Will of the West will have the errata'd text on them.  

## 37 [divinityofnumber on January 22, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1417261)

>  
> 
> > Changing Will of The West is THE WORST idea that i had seen in the game!Why they changed a card that was here since the core set?!
> 
>  
> 
> Unless you are trying to do one of the infinite loops, this change should have little bearing on the way Will of the West gets played.
> 
>  

 

I agree. I don't think that heavy-draw decks will be affected too much. I play one myself sometimes, and I know that you can draw almost the entire deck in a short period of time. I usually throw in two WIll of the West and also run 2-3 Dwarven Tomb, just in case I need to dig a Will of the West out of the discard pile. 

 

Decks like these use Will of the West as a sort of, "Oh, sh*t, I'm about to deck myself...I better shuffle the discard pile back in." That was the intended use. The new errata will not affect these types of decks. 

 

If you can use Will of the West 3 times...that means that you could potentially draw around 140-150 cards over the course of a game...is that not enough? If you can't beat the scenario after cycling through your deck three times...something is really wrong with your deck-building approach. 

 

The errata was aimed at decks that run on some sort of cheesy infinite loop type mechanic, not to nerf decks that like to draw cards. The errata doesn't really hurt decks that just like to draw a lot of cards. 

 

AND...you are more likely to need to shuffle in your discard pile once during a game than you are twice...so, the fact that Will of the West gets removed from the game actually HELPS decks that like to draw a lot of cards, since it is less likely that you will draw it that second time through the deck, when you are significantly less likely to need it. The errata is actually helpful for draw-heavy decks!

Edited January 22, 2015 by divinityofnumber

## 38 [HeavyKaragh on January 23, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1418544)

>  reset the quest deck

 

Erratas within erratas...

## 39 [DaeMord on January 23, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1418636)

>  
> 
> >  
> > 
> > > Changing Will of The West is THE WORST idea that i had seen in the game!Why they changed a card that was here since the core set?!
> > 
> >  
> > 
> > Unless you are trying to do one of the infinite loops, this change should have little bearing on the way Will of the West gets played.
> > 
> >  
> 
>  
> 
> I agree. I don't think that heavy-draw decks will be affected too much. I play one myself sometimes, and I know that you can draw almost the entire deck in a short period of time. I usually throw in two WIll of the West and also run 2-3 Dwarven Tomb, just in case I need to dig a Will of the West out of the discard pile. 
> 
>  
> 
> Decks like these use Will of the West as a sort of, "Oh, sh*t, I'm about to deck myself...I better shuffle the discard pile back in." That was the intended use. The new errata will not affect these types of decks. 
> 
>  
> 
> If you can use Will of the West 3 times...that means that you could potentially draw around 140-150 cards over the course of a game...is that not enough? If you can't beat the scenario after cycling through your deck three times...something is really wrong with your deck-building approach. 
> 
>  
> 
> The errata was aimed at decks that run on some sort of cheesy infinite loop type mechanic, not to nerf decks that like to draw cards. The errata doesn't really hurt decks that just like to draw a lot of cards. 
> 
>  
> 
> AND...you are more likely to need to shuffle in your discard pile once during a game than you are twice...so, the fact that Will of the West gets removed from the game actually HELPS decks that like to draw a lot of cards, since it is less likely that you will draw it that second time through the deck, when you are significantly less likely to need it. The errata is actually helpful for draw-heavy decks!
> 
>  

Where as there is nothing here i do not disagree with, it does make 1 assumption.

 

That assumption is each player who needs to reshuffle is running their own reshuffle, in my little gaming group generally 1 person (namely me) is responsible for the reshuffle of at least 2 decks often 3 decks.

 

Overall i do generally agree with this change so do not see this as moaning it is not, however it does mean the option of 1 person being responsible for 1 task in this case reshuffling is no longer really an option, with a card that is clearly built with the option of being played across the table as well as this always being pushed as a co-operative game it does make this extreme a change somewhat eyebrow raising for some.

## 40 [divinityofnumber on January 23, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1418772)

>  
> 
> >  
> > 
> > >  
> > > 
> > > > Changing Will of The West is THE WORST idea that i had seen in the game!Why they changed a card that was here since the core set?!
> > > 
> > >  
> > > 
> > > Unless you are trying to do one of the infinite loops, this change should have little bearing on the way Will of the West gets played.
> > > 
> > >  
> > 
> >  
> > 
> > I agree. I don't think that heavy-draw decks will be affected too much. I play one myself sometimes, and I know that you can draw almost the entire deck in a short period of time. I usually throw in two WIll of the West and also run 2-3 Dwarven Tomb, just in case I need to dig a Will of the West out of the discard pile. 
> > 
> >  
> > 
> > Decks like these use Will of the West as a sort of, "Oh, sh*t, I'm about to deck myself...I better shuffle the discard pile back in." That was the intended use. The new errata will not affect these types of decks. 
> > 
> >  
> > 
> > If you can use Will of the West 3 times...that means that you could potentially draw around 140-150 cards over the course of a game...is that not enough? If you can't beat the scenario after cycling through your deck three times...something is really wrong with your deck-building approach. 
> > 
> >  
> > 
> > The errata was aimed at decks that run on some sort of cheesy infinite loop type mechanic, not to nerf decks that like to draw cards. The errata doesn't really hurt decks that just like to draw a lot of cards. 
> > 
> >  
> > 
> > AND...you are more likely to need to shuffle in your discard pile once during a game than you are twice...so, the fact that Will of the West gets removed from the game actually HELPS decks that like to draw a lot of cards, since it is less likely that you will draw it that second time through the deck, when you are significantly less likely to need it. The errata is actually helpful for draw-heavy decks!
> > 
> >  
> 
> Where as there is nothing here i do not disagree with, it does make 1 assumption.
> 
>  
> 
> That assumption is each player who needs to reshuffle is running their own reshuffle, in my little gaming group generally 1 person (namely me) is responsible for the reshuffle of at least 2 decks often 3 decks.
> 
>  
> 
> Overall i do generally agree with this change so do not see this as moaning it is not, however it does mean the option of 1 person being responsible for 1 task in this case reshuffling is no longer really an option, with a card that is clearly built with the option of being played across the table as well as this always being pushed as a co-operative game it does make this extreme a change somewhat eyebrow raising for some.
> 
>  

 

It seems like all you will have to do is have each of the other players (at least the ones running Spirit) add in maybe one copy of Will of the West, if you all have very recycle-dependent decks. Have the main person responsible for "reshuffling" run 3 copies, and then another player or two can run a copy, just for safety in the rare case that the main person has not drawn into one when it is needed. Then, make sure someone is running Eowyn, so you can just pitch the extras for willpower. 

Edited January 23, 2015 by divinityofnumber

## 41 [Mndela on January 23, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1419124)

Nothing about Master of Lore, it could be writes: limit twice per round. -_- [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_sleep.png]

## 42 [Mndela on January 26, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1421766)

I thought that the combo GandalfHero-HiddenCache-ExperTreasureHunter-Pipe would be faqqed. But i see that developers are ok with it. Well, nice

Edited January 26, 2015 by Mndela

## 43 [joezim007 on January 26, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1421808)

It's not something that can be done infintely on one turn. So it's super powerful, but not overpowered.

## 44 [Noccus on January 26, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1422156)

Well done FFG.

Good errata's imo.

## 45 [zeb on January 29, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/132580-new-faq/?do=findComment&comment=1426061)

I found a typo: on page 2, at the very top, it still says FAQ version 1.6 1/22/2014. This should be updated.

