# [Lindir](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/194820-lindir/)

## 1 [Ecthelion III on December 2, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/194820-lindir/?do=findComment&comment=1915333)

This guy is really an enigma to me. Even in a full-power Erestor deck, I rarely get down to 1 or 2 cards during the planning phase. The cost is a little much for the stats alone. Have you guys found good use for Lindir, or is he just weak?

## 2 [Nickpes on December 2, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/194820-lindir/?do=findComment&comment=1915340)

Have never played an Erestor deck, but as a thought

 

You start with the three cards your planning phase (as Erestor has). One of them is Lindir. You play two of them, then play Lindir (thus you have played three) and draw three more card to have at your hand for the rest of the round. It does seem good to me at least

## 3 [John Constantine on December 2, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/194820-lindir/?do=findComment&comment=1915447)

He feels to me more like an outside-of-Erestor card. With Erestor, it will going to be hard both to pay for him and to make good use of his ability.

## 4 [Zalrus9 on December 2, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/194820-lindir/?do=findComment&comment=1915461)

Yeah, Lindr seems like he'd be good in a mono-spirit deck, where card draw is somewhat hard. Perhaps in a Caldara deck?

## 5 [cmabr002 on December 2, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/194820-lindir/?do=findComment&comment=1915704)

I definitely see his main use being in a Caldara deck.  My hand tends to be quite small when playing Caldara decks because you are actively trying to discard your high cost allies from your hand.  Really though, any deck that is made up of all low cost cards will greatly benefit from Lindir as a major problem of low cost decks is you play all your cards in the first 2 turns of the game and then fizzle out without card draw.  I personally think it will be fun to splash one spirit hero (lol Glorfindel or Maybe Arwen :D [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_biggrin.png]) to play a 3 cost card for 2 will power +3cards.  Not terrible.

Edited December 2, 2015 by cmabr002

## 6 [DukeWellington on December 3, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/194820-lindir/?do=findComment&comment=1917013)

Caldara, Arwen, Cirdan.

Dump Linder into discard with Glorfindel ally.

Play UC on Cirdan. Play Silvan Refugee. Put Emery into play. Put Elven Jeweler into play, discarding two cards.

During questing cast Elrond's Council.

At this point you have 1 card in hand.

After questing use Caldara's ability to sack her and put Glorfindel and Linder into play, draw 2 cards.

Next turn put Sword Thain on Glorfindel (Arwen's extra resource is unspent from turn 1 and you get an additional use of her ability on turn 2).

Chump block with Lindir.

Eventually cast Fortune or Fate and repeat. Each time Lindir brings you back up to 3 cards.

I think you get the idea.

## 7 [joezim007 on December 3, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/194820-lindir/?do=findComment&comment=1917464)

> Caldara, Arwen, Cirdan.
> 
> Dump Linder into discard with Glorfindel ally.
> 
> Play UC on Cirdan. Play Silvan Refugee. Put Emery into play. Put Elven Jeweler into play, discarding two cards.
> 
> During questing cast Elrond's Council.
> 
> At this point you have 1 card in hand.
> 
> After questing use Caldara's ability to sack her and put Glorfindel and Linder into play, draw 2 cards.
> 
> Next turn put Sword Thain on Glorfindel (Arwen's extra resource is unspent from turn 1 and you get an additional use of her ability on turn 2).
> 
> Chump block with Lindir.
> 
> Eventually cast Fortune or Fate and repeat. Each time Lindir brings you back up to 3 cards.
> 
> I think you get the idea.

 

That sounded awfully specific to set up...

## 8 [John Constantine on December 3, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/194820-lindir/?do=findComment&comment=1917508)

>  
> 
> > Caldara, Arwen, Cirdan.
> > 
> > Dump Linder into discard with Glorfindel ally.
> > 
> > Play UC on Cirdan. Play Silvan Refugee. Put Emery into play. Put Elven Jeweler into play, discarding two cards.
> > 
> > During questing cast Elrond's Council.
> > 
> > At this point you have 1 card in hand.
> > 
> > After questing use Caldara's ability to sack her and put Glorfindel and Linder into play, draw 2 cards.
> > 
> > Next turn put Sword Thain on Glorfindel (Arwen's extra resource is unspent from turn 1 and you get an additional use of her ability on turn 2).
> > 
> > Chump block with Lindir.
> > 
> > Eventually cast Fortune or Fate and repeat. Each time Lindir brings you back up to 3 cards.
> > 
> > I think you get the idea.
> 
>  
> 
> That sounded awfully specific to set up...

Well, he provided just an example of a spectacular card use. 

 

Basically add him in any low draw/big discard deck that runs 2+ spirit heroes or can provide a good discount (Grima).

Edited December 3, 2015 by John Constantine

## 9 [NathanH on December 3, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/194820-lindir/?do=findComment&comment=1917707)

We often find our Spirit side of the board going low on cards, so card draw + useful body will probably see plenty of play for the times we use 2+ Spirit heroes.

