# [Sagas](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/270735-sagas/)

## 1 [Ywingscum on March 1, 2018](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/270735-sagas/?do=findComment&comment=3233134)

I've played both Hobbit sagas.  Very enjoyable.  I have one core, 5 Mirkwood packs.  And I have player cards from heir of Numenor.

So I ordered all the LoTR sagas.

Guess I have two questions.  Do I have a deep enough card pool to play through the whole thing?

Second question, if all sagas aren't available, I guess you need to play them in order or not at all?

## 2 [NathanH on March 1, 2018](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/270735-sagas/?do=findComment&comment=3233484)

I don't think I'd like to play the last two boxes with that card pool, they are rather difficult. The earlier boxes should be winnable but might take quite a few attempts per quest. You can play individual quests in the sagas without playing the previous ones, just like a normal quest, but you won't be able to play them in Campaign Mode. Campaign Mode is fun, but it's not a huge change to the game, so you can still get most of the fun out of the boxes even if there's one missing.

## 3 [Calvadur on March 1, 2018](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/270735-sagas/?do=findComment&comment=3233775)

If memory serves the dwarrowdelf cycle had some excellent player cards and I recommend to pick them up (most quests are fun, too!) regardless.

As NathanH said, the first two boxes are 100% doable, one or two quests might take a while though. Second and fourth box depend on your skill I would say. If you bring good decks and play well it should be doable, but I only played those with a full cardpool.

Last two boxes have some of the hardest quests of the game, so good luck. 

Some people like to play quests in a minimal purchase mode (e.g. Seastan, check out his youtube if you like), meaning they only use the cards from one core and the necessary expansions to play a specific quest (=box + AP;/only the box for sagas). I don't know exactly which quests he did so far, but think some were quite tuff. That's just ment as a reminder, that most quests can be brought down with enough tries, regardless of your cardpool's size.

## 4 [Ywingscum on March 2, 2018](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/270735-sagas/?do=findComment&comment=3234136)

Thank you for the insights, I have to wait and see what comes in.

but I guess best bet to progress with other expansions a bit first.

 

## 5 [CaffeineAddict on March 9, 2018](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/270735-sagas/?do=findComment&comment=3243414)

Don't forget you can play the quests on easy mode. Easy doesn't really mean "easy", they're still tough, but more manageable for smaller card pools. 

