# [Orc Guard Q](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/46254-orc-guard-q/)

## 1 [ClydeCloggie on May 4, 2011](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/46254-orc-guard-q/?do=findComment&comment=463402)

Orc Guards are enemies generated by the effects of the Tower Gate location and Out of the Dungeons quest.

Question: do these enemies have the 'Orc' trait?

Following the "if it isn't there, it isn't there" rule, you'd say no, but following common sense the answer should be yes. So how have you all played it?

This is relevant for the effects of Longbeard Orc Slayer and Blade of Gondolin, for instance.

A more general question could be: if a card of the relevant type has a word in its title that is also used as a trait, does that card automatically have that trait?

 

 

 

## 2 [Toqtamish on May 4, 2011](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/46254-orc-guard-q/?do=findComment&comment=463538)

I think we can safely say yes as its clearly in their title.

## 3 [guciomir on May 4, 2011](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/46254-orc-guard-q/?do=findComment&comment=463543)

This must wait for FAQ. In many games the answer would be no, we can't take "yes" for granted. In the meantime we can play however we like, there aren;'t any tournaments before expansions and FAQ come

## 4 [jhaelen on May 4, 2011](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/46254-orc-guard-q/?do=findComment&comment=463630)

ClydeCloggie said:

A more general question could be: if a card of the relevant type has a word in its title that is also used as a trait, does that card automatically have that trait?

 

That's definitely a no.

It's odd that an orc guard doesn't get the 'orc' subtype, though. My guess is that it will be added in the FAQ. Orc Guards are odd in several other ways, e.g. what happens if I don't have any cards left in my deck? (Time to rejoice, I guess)

## 5 [fabest on May 5, 2011](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/46254-orc-guard-q/?do=findComment&comment=463805)

Nothing says that the Orc Guards have the Orc trait, so you should not consider they have it.

Maybe a ruling will say that if the same word as a trait is present in the name of the card, the card automatically has the trait, but it's not the case at the moment.

And if you don't have any cards left, you don't create them of course. But I think having no cards left will probably hurt you more than those 1/1/1 critters ^^

## 6 [jhaelen on May 5, 2011](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/46254-orc-guard-q/?do=findComment&comment=464086)

fabest said:

And if you don't have any cards left, you don't create them of course. But I think having no cards left will probably hurt you more than those 1/1/1 critters ^^



Well, considering that I lost two games because of those orc guards I'm not sure if running out of cards would have hurt me more. In my sole victorious solo game against the third scenario I won before a single orc guard was placed. Since the orc guards, too, get shadow cards, they can get very nasty if don't assign defenders to them, especially once they start piling up.

