# [Time X](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/)

## 1 [iznax on August 27, 2013](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/?do=findComment&comment=851622)

Time X, the best, most clever and innovative addition (new mechanic) in the game so far ?

I vote YES !  :D [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_biggrin.png] 

You ?

 

## 2 [richsabre on August 27, 2013](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/?do=findComment&comment=851624)

i agree. my only fear is that this will once again be a 1 cycle thing....things like secrecy X, time X....they're all great designs that eventually fall into nothing....the only thing that appears to be constantly in packs is battle and siege, ironically my least favourite of all the designs

rich

Edited August 27, 2013 by richsabre

## 3 [Ellareth on August 27, 2013](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/?do=findComment&comment=851627)

LotRLCG tried to put sense of urgency in the quest, first via threat, then via new scoring mechanics.

Some players just play for fun and doesn't keep track of score,

and lately threat became more of a resource than timer (as evident in some of spoiled cards).

 

Not sure how this mechanic will work out, but hope this one brings the sense of urgency back into the game.

## 4 [Bullroarer Took on August 27, 2013](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/?do=findComment&comment=851635)

AS I said elsewhere I'm a bit worried about it.  (And I know my style of play is probably the target of the mechanic.)  Urgency is fine as long as the only successful style of play isn't the uber-fast ally decks.

## 5 [Pharmboys2013 on August 27, 2013](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/?do=findComment&comment=851719)

I'm indifferent. Nearly every quest has some kind of new mechanic.  It does somewhat discourage more creative deck building however

## 6 [leptokurt on August 28, 2013](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/?do=findComment&comment=851800)

I kinda wish they would use some of the encounter keywords again. Like prowl, loved that!

 

 

Also, let's not forget that when Rich says "least favourite" it means that he still loves it, but not enough to stitch the names into his LOTR pillow.

 

 

(how can anyone not love battle and siege? :o [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_ohmy.png] )

## 7 [richsabre on August 28, 2013](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/?do=findComment&comment=851803)

>  
> 
> Also, let's not forget that when Rich says "least favourite" it means that he still loves it, but not enough to stitch the names into his LOTR pillow.
> 
>  
> 
>  
> 
> (how can anyone not love battle and siege? :o [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_ohmy.png] )

correct ;) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_wink.png] ......least favourite still = obsessive love

## 8 [leptokurt on August 28, 2013](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/?do=findComment&comment=851813)

Btw, I followed the link in your sig, Rich. These pictures are absolutely amazing! :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]

## 9 [richsabre on August 28, 2013](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/?do=findComment&comment=851818)

> Btw, I followed the link in your sig, Rich. These pictures are absolutely amazing! :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]

i am honoured sir :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]

## 10 [iznax on August 28, 2013](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/?do=findComment&comment=851820)

> I kinda wish they would use some of the encounter keywords again. Like prowl, loved that!
> 
>  
> 
>  
> 
> Also, let's not forget that when Rich says "least favourite" it means that he still loves it, but not enough to stitch the names into his LOTR pillow.
> 
>  
> 
>  
> 
> (how can anyone not love battle and siege? :o [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_ohmy.png] )

When battle and siege first introdused (in HON) i found it a ''cheap'' idea, then came quests like the battle of five armies and the druadan forest and they realy make some good use to it                                            

 

(sry for my poor english)

## 11 [leptokurt on August 28, 2013](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/?do=findComment&comment=851843)

>  
> 
> > Btw, I followed the link in your sig, Rich. These pictures are absolutely amazing! :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]
> 
> i am honoured sir :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]
> 
>  

Just took that Ullswater Summer pic as my desktop background. It's so peaceful!

Edited August 27, 2013 by leptokurt

## 12 [richsabre on August 28, 2013](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/?do=findComment&comment=851958)

>  
> 
> >  
> > 
> > > Btw, I followed the link in your sig, Rich. These pictures are absolutely amazing! :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]
> > 
> > i am honoured sir :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]
> > 
> >  
> 
> Just took that Ullswater Summer pic as my desktop background. It's so peaceful!
> 
>  

great ;) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_wink.png]. its so nice to have one's art recognised (there isn't much of a fan-base for infrared art....but i got sick of the cliche landscape images that so many other artists in my area is doing....im trying to break the mold)

rich

Edited August 28, 2013 by richsabre

## 13 [bollywongaloid on August 28, 2013](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/?do=findComment&comment=852290)

I like the idea of the Time mechanic tho I don't like the thought of the encounter deck being able to 'speed up' time by telling you to remove resources from the cards.  Not because it'll make things more difficult... just because I like the idea that time is constant and if the encounter deck messes with it too much to the point where you can't actually predict how much 'time' you have then that'd defeat the purpose of it even being there, for me.

## 14 [bollywongaloid on August 28, 2013](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/?do=findComment&comment=852291)

>  
> 
> >  
> > 
> > >  
> > > 
> > > > Btw, I followed the link in your sig, Rich. These pictures are absolutely amazing! :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]
> > > 
> > > i am honoured sir :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]
> > > 
> > >  
> > 
> > Just took that Ullswater Summer pic as my desktop background. It's so peaceful!
> > 
> >  
> 
> great ;) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_wink.png]. its so nice to have one's art recognised (there isn't much of a fan-base for infrared art....but i got sick of the cliche landscape images that so many other artists in my area is doing....im trying to break the mold)
> 
> rich
> 
>  

Loving the pictures rich... I have to say it's a little strange seeing places like Ullswater (was there about 3 weeks ago with the wife) that I recognise was a little bit unexpected lol. Btw where abouts is that St John's church?  I only ask because I'm a funeral director operating out of the north east and I'm sure I've done a funeral there, tho they all begin to look the same after a while!

## 15 [richsabre on August 28, 2013](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/89343-time-x/?do=findComment&comment=852498)

>  
> 
> >  
> > 
> > >  
> > > 
> > > >  
> > > > 
> > > > > Btw, I followed the link in your sig, Rich. These pictures are absolutely amazing! :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]
> > > > 
> > > > i am honoured sir :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png]
> > > > 
> > > >  
> > > 
> > > Just took that Ullswater Summer pic as my desktop background. It's so peaceful!
> > > 
> > >  
> > 
> > great ;) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_wink.png]. its so nice to have one's art recognised (there isn't much of a fan-base for infrared art....but i got sick of the cliche landscape images that so many other artists in my area is doing....im trying to break the mold)
> > 
> > rich
> > 
> >  
> 
> Loving the pictures rich... I have to say it's a little strange seeing places like Ullswater (was there about 3 weeks ago with the wife) that I recognise was a little bit unexpected lol. Btw where abouts is that St John's church?  I only ask because I'm a funeral director operating out of the north east and I'm sure I've done a funeral there, tho they all begin to look the same after a while!
> 
>  

thanks very much :) [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_smile.png] yes- going for the wierd and surreal look is my speciality....i spent so long taking pictures people wanted, instead of what my mind wanted

as for st johns, there are quite a few in cumbria, but the st john the evangelist church that is the brown colour image is close to me, near penrith. its in a little place called skirwith...beautiful place

thanks again!

rich

