# [Co-op](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/97510-co-op/)

## 1 [Junuki on January 21, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/97510-co-op/?do=findComment&comment=960470)

Hi,

Me and my girlfriend got this game for christmas and have fallen in love with it.

But because we are as green as a kawasaki motorcycle we run in to a lot of (dumb/maybe obvious) beginner's problems.

 

1. We were wondering if we could trade our cards from our hand if we have heroes from diffrent pools?

 

2. Is it possible to arrange you player deck in order to draw just cards from your heroe's pool.

 

3. What does de cost X mean on for example the "stand and fight" card? That it costs 10 resource tokens?

 

4. Is it possible to play just the beginner set with three players

 

5. And lastly, do the player decks need to be equal in amount for each player?

 

PS: We're from the Netherlands so sorry for my grammar if it's wrong ^_^ [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_happy.png]

 

PS:PS: I know it's a lame excuse :unsure: [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_unsure.png]

 

Thanks!

## 2 [GrandSpleen on January 21, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/97510-co-op/?do=findComment&comment=960486)

Hi, and welcome to the game!

 

1. You can't trade cards with another player.  Each player has their own deck, and draws from that deck only.

 

2. You have to shuffle your deck.  You're not allowed to pre-arrange it.  But you're free to build the deck almost any way you want, so with just the Core set you should only be including cards that match your heroes' spheres of influence.  Are you drawing cards that you can't use?  Maybe there is a problem with how you have built your decks?

 

3. X is a variable.  Whenever it shows up on a card, it is defined on the card.  In "Stand and Fight," X is the cost of the ally that you choose to play from the discard pile.  So if you use it to play Faramir (cost 4), you need to pay 4 Spirit resources. If you use it to play an Erebor Hammersmith (cost 2), you need to pay 2 Spirit resources.

 

4. You can play with 3 or even 4 players with just a core set.  It will be a little challenging to build effective decks, and you will have to use pen and paper, or dice, to keep track of 2 players' threat and probably resources as well.  But otherwise no problem.

 

5. The number of cards does not need to be equal for each deck.  There is a "tournament" rule that each deck should contain a minimum of 50 cards, but don't worry about this when you are just starting out.  

## 3 [Junuki on January 22, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/97510-co-op/?do=findComment&comment=960987)

Super awesome!

 

Thank you so much for the quick reply. And it also clears up a lot of stuff.

We just came up with one more question though:

 

If you 'choose' to engage an enemy, do you attack first or the enemy. And if you attack, does the enemy attack you back?

 

Thanks!

## 4 [chuckles on January 22, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/97510-co-op/?do=findComment&comment=961077)

Unfortunately enemies always attack first... unless you have something like 'quick strike' that allows you attack outside of the normal combat sequence.

Edited January 22, 2014 by chuckles

## 5 [Junuki on January 22, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/97510-co-op/?do=findComment&comment=961095)

And if you have allready defeated the ungoliant's spawn prior to reaching the "chosen path stage", does this mean you allready have won the game or do you have to draw the card again?

## 6 [GrandSpleen on January 22, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/97510-co-op/?do=findComment&comment=961111)

Gotta draw it again.  If you get Ungoliant's Spawn early on, a good strategy is to throw a Forest Snare, put some damage on it but keep it alive until you get to stage 3.

## 7 [Junuki on January 24, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/97510-co-op/?do=findComment&comment=962910)

Baxk again to the X: If I have the Gandalf search card, how much do I have to pay for that card and through how many cards of the top player's deck do I need to search, to find a card I want?

## 8 [vjg13 on January 24, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/97510-co-op/?do=findComment&comment=962914)

pay x search x pay 3 resource look at top 3 cards.pay 2 look at 2. pay 1 you're drawing the top card

## 9 [vjg13 on January 24, 2014](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/97510-co-op/?do=findComment&comment=962919)

on the chosen path stage u have to randomly pick one.of the 2 if.u end up with don't leave the path u will have to bring ungoliant spawn out of deck or discard pile. if.u end up on beorn path and he's already dead then just make 10 progress and u.win

