# [Vilya](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/165046-vilya/)

## 1 [Courchevel on April 12, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/165046-vilya/?do=findComment&comment=1558834)

Here an old mecanisms that still needs clarification for me :

If you exhaust Elrond and Vilya to reveal an ally on the top of your deck can you :

1/ put him into play

2/ play him

3/ chose to play him or put him into play

Of course assuming that you don't put the card back on the bottom of your deck.

May be it is not significant for you but it is still very different for me.

Edited April 11, 2015 by Courchevel

## 2 [GrandSpleen on December 3, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/165046-vilya/?do=findComment&comment=1917400)

Actually, Ranger spikes on those trolls is legal... from an old ruling in this thread [https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/79258-trolls-and-ranger-spikes/?hl=%2Btroll+%2Branger+%2Bspikes]:

 

"You are correct. The Ranger Spikes are played into the staging area and not on the trolls. Therefore, the troll's game text 'Players cannot play attachments on Troll enemies' does not apply. Cheers, Caleb"

 

Durin's Bane can't ever leave the staging area (and then return to it), but it seems like the Witch-King also could get stuck in spikes.

Edited December 3, 2015 by GrandSpleen

## 3 [Lecitadin on December 3, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/165046-vilya/?do=findComment&comment=1917742)

> Actually, Ranger spikes on those trolls is legal... from an old ruling in this thread [https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/79258-trolls-and-ranger-spikes/?hl=%2Btroll+%2Branger+%2Bspikes]:
> 
>  
> 
> "You are correct. The Ranger Spikes are played into the staging area and not on the trolls. Therefore, the troll's game text 'Players cannot play attachments on Troll enemies' does not apply. Cheers, Caleb"
> 
>  
> 
> Durin's Bane can't ever leave the staging area (and then return to it), but it seems like the Witch-King also could get stuck in spikes.

 

WHAT???   :blink: [//content.invisioncic.com/Mfantflight/emoticons/default_blink.png]  I've mever seen this before! It's tru that the wording on all the traps is ''Play Ranger Spikes into the staging area unattached.

If unattached, attach Ranger Spikes to the next eligible enemy that enters the staging area.''

 

So players do not play the attachment on the troll but they only attach it? Wow... That is so subtle... and it makes those traps even more tempting!!

 

That also explains the Forest snare that must be attached directly to the enemy getting blocked by the 'Players cannot play attachments on enemy'.

 

Well, Damrod, you are now Boss.

Edited December 3, 2015 by Lecitadin

## 4 [cmabr002 on April 23, 2016](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/165046-vilya/?do=findComment&comment=2183348)

> Here an old mecanisms that still needs clarification for me :
> 
> If you exhaust Elrond and Vilya to reveal an ally on the top of your deck can you :
> 
> 1/ put him into play
> 
> 2/ play him
> 
> 3/ chose to play him or put him into play
> 
> Of course assuming that you don't put the card back on the bottom of your deck.
> 
> May be it is not significant for you but it is still very different for me.

 

I have received a ruling from Caleb regarding this situation that, to my knowledge, had never been answered by a developer until now, though I may have overlooked it.

 

>  
> 
> Q: If you exhaust Elrond and Vilya to reveal an ally on the top of your deck can you : 1) put him into play at no cost, 2) play him at no cost, or 3) choose to play him at no cost or put him into play?
> 
>  
> 
> A: When you use Vilya’s ability and the top card of your deck is an ally or attachment, you put it into play. The added language about “play at no cost” is there for when the top card of your deck is an event, because you don’t put events into play.

Edited April 23, 2016 by cmabr002

## 5 [Seastan on April 24, 2016](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/165046-vilya/?do=findComment&comment=2183765)

>  
> 
> > Here an old mecanisms that still needs clarification for me :
> > 
> > If you exhaust Elrond and Vilya to reveal an ally on the top of your deck can you :
> > 
> > 1/ put him into play
> > 
> > 2/ play him
> > 
> > 3/ chose to play him or put him into play
> > 
> > Of course assuming that you don't put the card back on the bottom of your deck.
> > 
> > May be it is not significant for you but it is still very different for me.
> 
>  
> 
> I have received a ruling from Caleb regarding this situation that, to my knowledge, had never been answered by a developer until now, though I may have overlooked it.
> 
>  
> 
> >  
> > 
> > Q: If you exhaust Elrond and Vilya to reveal an ally on the top of your deck can you : 1) put him into play at no cost, 2) play him at no cost, or 3) choose to play him at no cost or put him into play?
> > 
> >  
> > 
> > A: When you use Vilya’s ability and the top card of your deck is an ally or attachment, you put it into play. The added language about “play at no cost” is there for when the top card of your deck is an event, because you don’t put events into play.
> 
>  

 

So, Vilya will not work with Erebor Hammersmith.

