# [Magic and Artifice](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/177347-magic-and-artifice/)

## 1 [Gizlivadi on May 20, 2015](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/177347-magic-and-artifice/?do=findComment&comment=1629871)

Okay, so this is kind of an open letter/rant to the developer team. My question is simple: now with the Dúnedain, Noldor and Ents getting established as defined archetypes in the game, when in the heck are we going to see the themes of magic and magical artifacts getting a proper development? I know I've gone on and on about this with my custom cards, but as some may have guessed this is a favorite theme of mine, and strangely, one of the least developed in the game, so I decided to make a special thread about it. What I'm talking about is wizard-related cards, spells, Palantiri (actual unique, viable, PLAYER card palantiri), various magic rings, jewels,  etc. Not only that, but the theme of magic artifacts being also dangerous and prone to corrupt its bearer. You would have thought that we would see this in The Voice of Isengard and the Ring-Maker cycle, not only with those titles but also with the Doomed mechanic, which would represent these themes perfectly. So why didn't the developers even consider this possibility? It seemed that in VoI they were pointing towards that (especially with cards such as Keys of Orthanc, Power of Orthanc, Wizard's Voice, please more of that!) and then BAM, Silvan cards galore, and Doomed gets relegated to Mirkwood Pioneers and whatnot. It seemed like a huge wasted opportunity. Probably the worst dissapointment I've experienced since Gondor supposedly being the chief theme in the ATS cycle. I am aware that Caleb and Matt probably won't reply to this openly since obviously they can't speak of future designs, even if hypothetical, but hopefully they'll know that this theme is rather important and IMO we should have more of it. I am also aware that the developers have been careful not to trivialize these themes by making them mundane and easily accesible, but again, we also know that in ME these things existed and were available to the most learned individuals (we know that there are many magic rings, even if they're hidden), but if there was a way to make them avalable while still make them special it would be awesome. Maybe you need to have an Istari or Noldor character in play to use these? Maybe this is the best way to develop the Doomed mechanic? I would love to have an actual deck based around these themes, maybe not a 100% but still having them being prevalent. Saruman hero would be most welcome. So, is this something the developers are aware of? Do they have any plans for developing this in the future? And most importantly, would you, the community, like to see these themes represented in the game? Please reply to the thread if so, so at least I can confirm that I'm not alone in this.

Edited May 20, 2015 by Gizlivadi

