# [Thoughts on tactics Eowyn](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/227890-thoughts-on-tactics-eowyn/)

## 1 [DukeWellington on August 17, 2016](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/227890-thoughts-on-tactics-eowyn/?do=findComment&comment=2369905)

I don't get a lot of interaction from my decklists, but you all seem to respond to my more "game philosophy" type posts. I enjoy writing out my musings, so I hope you all do as well.

I knew that tactics Eowyn was going to be a radically different hero as soon as I saw her first spoiler. Now, I haven't played with her a ton, but my suspicions have already been confirmed. Her release will be a signpost of a significant shift in LOTR, and I don't think we fully grasp it yet.

Some people will complain that Eowyn is the posterchild of color bleed. Do the colors even mean anything anymore? So, before I talk about Eowyn specifically I want to address the subject of color identity. It all started with Magic the Gathering. The idea of the color wheel in Magic was that the game needed some kind of boundary or obstacle that prevented players from just putting 4 copies of the best 15 cards into their deck. By introducing colored mana players were forced to either put less powerful cards in their deck (to keep consistent color cost) or fill precious deckspace with color fixing cards that might not come out when needed, making the deck more potentially powerful, but less consistent. Not only was the color wheel a brilliant design feature, but it added limitations to players in a fun way, so that those players never felt cheated. To this day the color wheel remains one of the most influential aspects of design introduced by Magic the Gathering.

However, color is not the only type of boundary to limit player deck design. There are also tribal requirements. For instance, the new card Golden Shield is limited by being red, but far more so by only going on Rohan heroes (and not characters). Right away I can say that over the history of this game, the tribal limitations have been far more important and interesting than the colors in LOTR. This is true, in my opinion, because the focus on tribes connects the game mechanics to the source material in a more flavorful and satisfying way. In fact, the colors work best when they serve the tribal identities, not the other way around. There is something interesting about the fact that eagles are only red. Gondor feels right at home in purple (primarily) and ents are obviously green.

The problem with the color wheel, in both Magic and LOTR, is that the designers had to designate various game elements as strengths and weaknesses without really knowing which of those elements would end up mattering more. Not all advantages are created equal. So if red gets all the ranged characters while green gets all the healing, how will the game balance out? Each color should feel like a four legged chair with one leg missing. You can make it work if you lean in the right direction, but if you try to do too much you may come crashing down. In early Magic, the blue part of the color wheel got too many of the most important game elements as strengths while green was basically unplayable because all their advantages turned out to be meaningless garbage. In a case of history repeating irself, blue also started out as OP in LOTR, while it was red that ended up as nearly unplayable crap. Red was a four legged chair with 2 legs missing while blue seemed to have 5 legs.

One example of why this happened is attack power. The game desingers realized the obvious fact that attack power was so essential to game success that they had to give it out to all colors. This made red less important because even though it was supposed to be the color of combat, it was not significantly better at attack. In contrast willpower was not recognized as essential, even though it was just as important, if not more important, than attack power. As a result, blue became a power house by being the best at questing while still being able to attack almost equally as well as red. Red, which had almost no willpower, became unplayable garbage.

The solution to the problem of the color wheel is to recognize the difference between core essential game elements, those required for success, and marginal elements, which can be important or powerful, but can also be left out without garenteed defeat. Willpower is essential. Healing is marginal. I could go on, but that is a debate for another post. Then, even if you put a game element in all colors you can still force each color to access it by a different path, so red, for instance, has to gain resources by engaging enemies as with Mablung.

The bottom line is that red needed a hero like Eowyn, and frankly, it took too long. The game is still better with clear distinction between colors, but every color needs to be viable by having strength in all essential elements of the game.

Now, despite having 4 willpower in red, with a starting threat of 6 (effectively) Eowyn is still not very good. There, I said it. She kinda sucks. Now, it's not really her fault. It's because red still has little going for it outside of strong heroes like Boromir, Hama, Legolas, and Beregond. As a result, there isn't any motivation to choose Eowyn over other heroes, including better red heroes and including her own blue alternative self. Why go red anyway? What does it offer? It has feint, but without Hama that's just okay. It has Foe-hammer, but green has about 20 better card draw options. What does going mono red open up? You get trained for war, which has sick anti synergy with Eowyn. You get thicket of spears, which makes multiplayer seriously boring in the right combo deck but otherwise is too expensive. You get that knight that can attack alone against an enemy in staging, which is so useless it actually makes me laugh out loud thinking about putting it in my deck. Seriously, what does red Eowyn offer that blue Eowyn does not? She has 3 lower startng threat, but red has no secrecy cards. The last color anybody cares about in secrecy is red. Nevertheless, I do think her secrecy angle is already showing potential when she is paired up with hobbits. I'm not completely sold on it yet, but the future looks intriguing.

In the current meta, the only substantial reward I have found for playing specifically red Eowyn is playing her with Theoden. Red Theoden pushes her to 5 willpower, which is quite impressive, and blue Santa Theoden allows you to use red Eowyn to splash red in a rohan tribal deck so you can get 1 cost outriders without going Eomer. That is genuinely fun and cool, but more of a novelty instead of something with time tested reliability.

The conclusion is that tactics Eowyn does not fit into any existing type of deck. New deck styles will need to be invented before she is actually good. This may reqire more cards or rethinking current deck design approaches. Time will tell if this new Eowyn is an interesting novelty or a foundational staple of certain archtypes. Personally I hope and believe it will be the second, but we have a long way to go. Until then, have fun exploring Middle Earth with our new secret shield maiden.

Edited August 17, 2016 by DukeWellington

## 2 [Bullroarer Took on August 17, 2016](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/227890-thoughts-on-tactics-eowyn/?do=findComment&comment=2370528)

I wrote a long piece titled "Spirits Silver Spoon" a few months after the core set came out that complained about the red/blue schism. I agree that it really hasn't improved. I would like to add a few points though:

You must quest every turn, but you don't necessarily have combat every turn. This alone makes will power more important than attack or defense.

The ratios of encounter cards aren't constant, but for arguments sake assume they are 1/3 each location, treachery and enemy. Spirit is ALSO the sphere that handles treacheries the best with A Test of Will (and ways to get that back). Spirit also came equipped with Dunhere which let them attack the staging area without even having to engage an defend.

Without readying effects, each hero can quest, attack OR defend. And yet willpower, attack and defense count equally towards threat. This means that a hero that can attack and defend well gets doubly penalized for threat and additionally penalized if it has high hit points. And yet, even during the first cycle of Dunedain xxx cards we saw that gaining willpower was worth twice as much as gaining attack or defense. I believe the game would be better if there were a single "combat" stat rather than attack and defense.

I have a pretty good deck with Boromir. The only tactics cards in it are Feint and Gondorian Shield. (I don't use Fire.)

Incidentally, in terms of pure stats, lore has the very slight edge in defense.

I won't argue with sphere bleed. Can't. I will say again that the core set feels rushed to me and if a longer play testing period had been spent some of this would have been ironed out. That said Caleb and Matt have done a pretty good job steering the ship since they took over. They have pushed the game more towards tribal rather than sphere and maybe that's what the game should have been from the beginning.

