# [[Many storyline spoilers] What happens with the Roam Across Rhovanion story?](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/285075-many-storyline-spoilers-what-happens-with-the-roam-across-rhovanion-story/)

## 1 [Rouxxor on October 24, 2018](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/285075-many-storyline-spoilers-what-happens-with-the-roam-across-rhovanion-story/?do=findComment&comment=3513247)

I always find that LoTR developer have made a great deal of producing an interesting story, depicting many situations, environment and making us think about the geopolitical and sociological situations in the middle earth. The top have been achieve, to me, with the cycle 4 where we were destabilize a region just because we think we have an important thing to do. And even that important thing was a fake since we serve Saruman goal all along. We ended serving in a war willingly and we weren't good anymore, even if no one say it since we were in the winner side.

But let's go closer to our timeline. We just meet back to back two humans place allies to Mordor (Umbar and Harad) and see how Sauron and his allies enforce people to join his rank. How he manipulate them and make them believe we use brutal methods. It is not anymore because they are evil, but part because of territorial issues and because of misunderstanding, lies and hatred. We still get to gain allies among them. Interesting and less black and white than most LoTR stories I have read.

And then arrive the cycle 8. The main thing is a dragon story. Okay. But at the end of the first AP a goblin come to see us. He may have been trapped inside the cave we were in, but since he was undetected he could have wait and escape later easily. So he definitively come in peace to speak. There is a discussion between them and the goblin offer to help them. The heroes react saying no hurt will be doing to the goblin. A small term alliance between humans and goblin seem an interesting thing to read. I'm totally in!

And then: First thing we do in the next AP: we tie it. Remember the "no hurt" part? Totally gone. They (we, the supposed heroes) are threatening him to kill it. The goblin swear to give us a key. The the quest arrive. Depending of the encounter cards you face Urdug may try to escape or not. But he deliver us the key. Then he try to leave with his friend. Seem logical since he is among violent people that have no consideration toward him. The story explain us Urdug betray the heroes, who kill the innocent troll and tie the goblin and continue to hurt and threatening him.

What happens?!?! We were a bunch of people open minded who try to help the people. We turn into sanguinary sociopath who broke their words. And even worst: the narrator agree with the heroes by taking their languages: the traitor is the goblin, they are smart to anticipate the escape. We can clearly say that the writer see no problem on the situation. And that is the major difference with the previous dark situations.

What happens? It will be hard to make me believe the same person write these two things. The part where there is no violence, and the heroes have doubts but still ensure they will no hurt the goblin is not the same kind of story that the brutal, disgusting scene we got. And there is no use of a story if you can't write it properly. Because it is not only the concern that it does not please me: it is also not coherent from one AP to another. I want you, FFG, to warn you that we notice that concern instantly. We (a french group that originally discuss it on our forum) all be very disappointed by this story! Be what is necessary to get to a decent story.

## 2 [Bullroarer Took on October 24, 2018](https://community.fantasyflightgames.com/topic/285075-many-storyline-spoilers-what-happens-with-the-roam-across-rhovanion-story/?do=findComment&comment=3513871)

As long as we’re griping about Roam, I really don’t like that they haven’t posted an official word about which encounter sets to use.  The card set on the insert is different from the card set on the quest cards.  Reportedly Caleb told players at the Con of the Rings that the insert was right and the quest cards wrong, but if I weren’t so closely plugged in to the community I wouldn’t know this.  The announcement article was posted after Con of the Rings so ANA had every opportunity to clarify the error, but instead they chose to make another.

